docs/source/run.rst, before:

.. _run:

Input files and running the code
================================

Once you have :ref:`downloaded the source code and build the executable <build>` you can run program using the instructions below.

Input files
-----------
The Vacuum-MD program is run from the command line and reads input parameters from several input files. These file are placed in the same
directory as the Vacuum-MD executable file. The main input files is simply called **input** and is always required. Other input files such
are only required when specific features of the program are used.

Input file
++++++++++
The program will read a file called **input** when it starts. This file defines the simulation parameters to be used and is a Fortran namelist file.
The parameters are described below, with an example given at the end.

V_S
    A number in units of Volts [V] that specifies the voltage from the source.
BOX_DIM(1:3)
    Dimensions of the simulations box given as three numbers in nano-meters [nm]. Should specify x, y and z. For now only the z value is used.
TIME_STEP
    The size of the timestep Δt in the simulation given in pico-seconds [ps].
STEPS
    Number of timesteps to do in the simulations. Should be an integer number large than zero.
EMISSION_MODE
    The emission mode controls the type of emission from the cathode. It should given as one of the following integer numbers:
    
    1: :ref:`Photo emission <photo>`.

    3: :ref:`Field emission from a hyperboloid tip <field-tip>`.

    9: :ref:`Thermal-field emission <thermal-field>`.

    10: :ref:`Planar field emission <field>`.
NREMIT
    Number of emitters in the system. Should be an integer larger than zero. Note that not all emission modes support multiple emitters.
IMAGE_CHARGE
    Boolean (.TRUE. / .FALSE.) if system should include image charge effects.
EMITTERS_DIM(1:3, <EMITTER NUMBER>)
    Dimensions of the emitter given as three numbers in nano-meters [nm].
    If the emitter is a circle only the first number is relevant and is interpreted as the radius of the emitter.
    For a rectangular emitter the first two numbers represent the length in the x and y directions respectively.
    Is the emitter is a hyperboloid tip the first number distance from the peak of the tip to the anode. The second number is the base radius of the tip
    and the last number is the height of the tip. See :ref:`Field emission from a hyperboloid tip <field-tip>` in the code description for more details.
    Here **<EMITTER NUMBER>** should be replaced by the number of the emitter.
    This line should be given for all emitters in the system.
EMITTERS_POS(1:3, <EMITTER NUMBER>)
    Position of the emitter given as three numbers in nano-meters [nm]. Here **<EMITTER NUMBER>** should be replaced by the number of the emitter.
    This line should be given for all emitters in the system.
EMITTERS_TYPE(<EMITTER NUMBER>)
    Geometry of the emitter is given as an integer. It should be given as one of the following integer numbers:
    
    1: Circular emitter. Only photo emission supports circular emitters.

    2: Rectangle.
    
    3: Rectangle spots.
    
    Here **<EMITTER NUMBER>** should be replaced by the number of the emitter. This line should be given for all emitters in the system.
EMITTERS_DELAY(<EMITTER NUMBER>)
    The timestep the emitter should become active and start emitting. Here **<EMITTER NUMBER>** should be replaced by the number of the emitter.
    This line should be given for all emitters in the system.

Example input file with one emitter doing planar field emission:

.. code-block:: text

  &INPUT
    V_S = 1.0d3,
    BOX_DIM = 0.0d0, 0.0d0, 1000.0d0,
    TIME_STEP = 0.25d-3,
    STEPS = 20000,
    EMISSION_MODE = 10,
    NREMIT = 1,
    IMAGE_CHARGE = .TRUE.

    EMITTERS_DIM(1:3, 1) 1000.0d0, 1000.0d0, 1000.0d0,
    EMITTERS_POS(1:3, 1) = -500.0d0, -500.0d0, 0.0d0,
    EMITTERS_TYPE(1) = 1,
    EMITTERS_DELAY(1) = 0,
  /

Work function
+++++++++++++
For field emission and thermal-field emission the work function on the emitter surface is specified using an input file called **w_theta**. This only applies to the planar cases,
for the hyperboloid tip surface the work function needs to specified in the file **mod_emission_top.f90** using the **w_theta** variable.

The first line in the work function input file should be an integer number. Currently only the number 1 is supported which represents a checkerboard work function surface.
The second line should have two integer number that indicate the number of rows and columns in the checkerboard. The rest of the file is a matrix of numbers that
represent the work function values in the checkerboard. Note that the checkerboard is only supported for a single emitter.

Example checkerboard work function file:

.. code-block:: text

  1
  2 2
  2.5d0 3.0d0
  3.0d0 2.5d0  

Collisions
++++++++++
N\ :sub:`2` files

Laser
+++++

Laser file

.. code-block:: console

    1 2 2
    4.7 0.02
    10000 1000 5

Photoemission Input Warning
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The header/first line sets parameters;
The first number enables Gaussian electron emission pulse, 1 = on, 2 = off.
Second number selects type of laser input, 1 for fixed photon energy, 2 for Poisson distributed photon energy.
Third number picks velocity profile for electrons, 1 being zero initial velocity, 2 for work function dependant inital velocity.
    
Second line is laser (photon) energy and variation, first being the laser 'mean' energy level in electronVolts (eV) and second being standard deviation of the laser (in eV's as well). 
This is normal distribution with Box-Muller method.
For work function dependant initial velocity the energy is compared to the work function with the excess making way for Newtonian velocity given to the electrons.

Third line is gauss pulse parameters, center (mu), width (sigma) and A(mplitude) of the pulse. 
The gaussian pulse is simulated with output restriction of electrons according to normal distribution.
This should in theory simulate the Quantum Efficiency and Intensity via amplitude modulation.


Running the code
-----------------

To do

Examples
--------

Describe examples in the Examples/ folder and make new ones. To do...

.. index:: Collisions, N₂, input, w_theta, work function, time_step, time step, box_dim, steps, emission_mode, nremit

Commit message:

Docs update on circle position and dimentions

docs/source/run.rst, after:

.. _run:

Input files and running the code
================================

Once you have :ref:`downloaded the source code and build the executable <build>` you can run program using the instructions below.

Input files
-----------
The Vacuum-MD program is run from the command line and reads input parameters from several input files. These file are placed in the same
directory as the Vacuum-MD executable file. The main input files is simply called **input** and is always required. Other input files such
are only required when specific features of the program are used.

Input file
++++++++++
The program will read a file called **input** when it starts. This file defines the simulation parameters to be used and is a Fortran namelist file.
The parameters are described below, with an example given at the end.

V_S
    A number in units of Volts [V] that specifies the voltage from the source.
BOX_DIM(1:3)
    Dimensions of the simulations box given as three numbers in nano-meters [nm]. Should specify x, y and z. For now only the z value is used.
TIME_STEP
    The size of the timestep Δt in the simulation given in pico-seconds [ps].
STEPS
    Number of timesteps to do in the simulations. Should be an integer number large than zero.
EMISSION_MODE
    The emission mode controls the type of emission from the cathode. It should given as one of the following integer numbers:
    
    1: :ref:`Photo emission <photo>`.

    3: :ref:`Field emission from a hyperboloid tip <field-tip>`.

    9: :ref:`Thermal-field emission <thermal-field>`.

    10: :ref:`Planar field emission <field>`.
NREMIT
    Number of emitters in the system. Should be an integer larger than zero. Note that not all emission modes support multiple emitters.
IMAGE_CHARGE
    Boolean (.TRUE. / .FALSE.) if system should include image charge effects.
EMITTERS_DIM(1:3, <EMITTER NUMBER>)
    Dimensions of the emitter given as three numbers in nano-meters [nm].
    If the emitter is a circle the first number is interpreted as the radius of the emitter, 
    second is used for workfunction definitions and should be identical to the first number.
    For a rectangular emitter the first two numbers represent the length in the x and y directions respectively.
    Is the emitter is a hyperboloid tip the first number distance from the peak of the tip to the anode. The second number is the base radius of the tip
    and the last number is the height of the tip. See :ref:`Field emission from a hyperboloid tip <field-tip>` in the code description for more details.
    Here **<EMITTER NUMBER>** should be replaced by the number of the emitter.
    This line should be given for all emitters in the system.
EMITTERS_POS(1:3, <EMITTER NUMBER>)
    Position of the emitter given as three numbers in nano-meters [nm]. Here **<EMITTER NUMBER>** should be replaced by the number of the emitter.
    This line should be given for all emitters in the system.
    The position for circle and rectangle is measured from lower left corner of the rectangle (enclosing the circle).
EMITTERS_TYPE(<EMITTER NUMBER>)
    Geometry of the emitter is given as an integer. It should be given as one of the following integer numbers:
    
    1: Circular emitter. Only photo emission supports circular emitters.

    2: Rectangle.
    
    3: Rectangle spots.
    
    Here **<EMITTER NUMBER>** should be replaced by the number of the emitter. This line should be given for all emitters in the system.
EMITTERS_DELAY(<EMITTER NUMBER>)
    The timestep the emitter should become active and start emitting. Here **<EMITTER NUMBER>** should be replaced by the number of the emitter.
    This line should be given for all emitters in the system.

Example input file with one emitter doing planar field emission:

.. code-block:: text

  &INPUT
    V_S = 1.0d3,
    BOX_DIM = 0.0d0, 0.0d0, 1000.0d0,
    TIME_STEP = 0.25d-3,
    STEPS = 20000,
    EMISSION_MODE = 10,
    NREMIT = 1,
    IMAGE_CHARGE = .TRUE.

    EMITTERS_DIM(1:3, 1) 1000.0d0, 1000.0d0, 1000.0d0,
    EMITTERS_POS(1:3, 1) = -500.0d0, -500.0d0, 0.0d0,
    EMITTERS_TYPE(1) = 1,
    EMITTERS_DELAY(1) = 0,
  /

Work function
+++++++++++++
For field emission and thermal-field emission the work function on the emitter surface is specified using an input file called **w_theta**. This only applies to the planar cases,
for the hyperboloid tip surface the work function needs to specified in the file **mod_emission_top.f90** using the **w_theta** variable.

The first line in the work function input file should be an integer number. Currently only the number 1 is supported which represents a checkerboard work function surface.
The second line should have two integer number that indicate the number of rows and columns in the checkerboard. The rest of the file is a matrix of numbers that
represent the work function values in the checkerboard. Note that the checkerboard is only supported for a single emitter.

Example checkerboard work function file:

.. code-block:: text

  1
  2 2
  2.5d0 3.0d0
  3.0d0 2.5d0  

Collisions
++++++++++
N\ :sub:`2` files

Laser
+++++

Laser file

.. code-block:: console

    1 2 2
    4.7 0.02
    10000 1000 5

Photoemission Input Warning
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The header/first line sets parameters;
The first number enables Gaussian electron emission pulse, 1 = on, 2 = off.
Second number selects type of laser input, 1 for fixed photon energy, 2 for Poisson distributed photon energy.
Third number picks velocity profile for electrons, 1 being zero initial velocity, 2 for work function dependant inital velocity.
    
Second line is laser (photon) energy and variation, first being the laser 'mean' energy level in electronVolts (eV) and second being standard deviation of the laser (in eV's as well). 
This is normal distribution with Box-Muller method.
For work function dependant initial velocity the energy is compared to the work function with the excess making way for Newtonian velocity given to the electrons.

Third line is gauss pulse parameters, center (mu), width (sigma) and A(mplitude) of the pulse. 
The gaussian pulse is simulated with output restriction of electrons according to normal distribution.
This should in theory simulate the Quantum Efficiency and Intensity via amplitude modulation.


Running the code
-----------------

To do

Examples
--------

Describe examples in the Examples/ folder and make new ones. To do...

.. index:: Collisions, N₂, input, w_theta, work function, time_step, time step, box_dim, steps, emission_mode, nremit
